operator-framework/api: add new checks to the operatorhub validator (#65)
operator-framework/enhancements: enhancements/operator-hub-check.md

---

> title: Neat-Enhancement-Idea

Reviewer: operatorhub-bundle-validation

authors:
  - "@camilamacedo86"
reviewers:
  - TBD
approvers:
  - TBD
creation-date: 2021-02-19
last-updated: 2021-02-19
status: implementable
---

# Add checks to OperatorHubValidator

> This proposal describes a new checks to be implemented in the [operator-framework/api][oper-api] into the [OperatorHubValidator][operatorhubvalidator].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This proposal describes new checks to be implemented in the [operator-framework/api][oper-api] into the [OperatorHubValidator][operatorhubvalidator].
```

> This proposal describes a new checks to be implemented in the [operator-framework/api][oper-api] into the [OperatorHubValidator][operatorhubvalidator].

Reviewer 2: Could you rewrite this summary please? I don't understand "...new checks to be implemented in the (api) into the (validator)."? I think maybe it means implement new checks in the (validator) in the (api)" or maybe this can simply not mention API at all?

Author: changed. I hope that it addresses your concern.

## Release Signoff Checklist

- [x] Enhancement is `implementable`
- [x] Design details are appropriately documented from clear requirements
- [x] Test plan is defined
- [ ] Graduation criteria for dev preview, tech preview, GA

## Summary

> `OperatorHubValidator` checks of the operator is respecting the required criteria to be published in the [OperatorHub.io](https://operatorhub.io/). This proposal describe criteria to be added on it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`OperatorHubValidator` checks if the operator is respecting the required criteria to be published in the [OperatorHub.io](https://operatorhub.io/). This proposal describes criteria to be added to it. 
```

> Many tools and projects uses `OperatorHubValidator` already. Note that the new checks described by this proposal will be available via SDK:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many tools and projects use `OperatorHubValidator` already. Note that the new checks described by this proposal will be available via SDK:
```

> ```sh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Author: It is the output of the command line. Because of this is in the ```sh

To validate a bundle with a superset of requirements for operatorhub.io specifically:

>    

Reviewer 2: ```sh

Reviewer 2: wow GitHub did something odd with that, I'm just suggesting we should move the start of the sh quoting down to not include the text explanation.

Author: The text explanation is part of the tool output because of this is in ```sh

Author: I tried to clarify it. Tks

Reviewer 3: @camilamacedo86  I would completely remove the `--help` and description since it doesn't really add much to the explanation. Just show the proposed commands:

```
operator-sdk bundle validate ./bundle --select-optional name=operatorhub
```

  $ operator-sdk bundle validate ./bundle --select-optional name=operatorhub
``` 

> **NOTE** For further information check [here](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/olm-integration/generation/#validation) in the SDK docs and the [here](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/validate-package/#validation) in the OLM docs. Also, the new checks are demanding to address a further requirement proposal to audit all bundles of a provided catalogue. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE** For further information check [here](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/olm-integration/generation/#validation) in the SDK docs and [here](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/validate-package/#validation) in the OLM docs. Also, the new checks are demanding to address a further requirement proposal to audit all bundles of a provided catalogue. 
```

> **NOTE** For further information check [here](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/olm-integration/generation/#validation) in the SDK docs and the [here](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/validate-package/#validation) in the OLM docs. Also, the new checks are demanding to address a further requirement proposal to audit all bundles of a provided catalogue. 

Reviewer 2: "Also, the new checks are demanding to address a further requirement proposal to audit all bundles of a provided catalogue." Not sure of what's meant here.

## Motivation

> - Allow operator developers and automatically jobs check required criteria to publish an operator bundle on OperatorHub. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Allow an operator developer or scheduled jobs a means to check required criteria for publishing an operator on OperatorHub.
```

> - Allow operator developers and automatically jobs check required criteria to publish an operator bundle on OperatorHub. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Allow operator developers and automatic jobs to check required criteria for publishing an operator bundle on OperatorHub. 
```

> - Allow operator developers and automatically jobs check required criteria to publish an operator bundle on OperatorHub before it is achieved locally and in the CI 

Reviewer: > before its is achieved locally and in the CI

i'm not sure what this means.

Author: I will remove it. Tks.

> - Validate the operator bundle manifests and notify users and maintainers with warning and errors about what is not complain about the OperatorHub criteria

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Validate the operator bundle manifests and notify users and maintainers with warning and errors about what is not compliant to the OperatorHub criteria
```

### Goals

- Perform static checks on the operator bundle manifests to avoid the scenarios where the operator bundle:
    - is published but will not be installable

>     - is not prepared to work well on all Kubernetes cluster versions and has not any configuration to address its limitation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - is not prepared to work well on all Kubernetes cluster versions and lacks any configuration to address its limitation
```

    - is using deprecated or no longer supported K8S APIs

>     - is not following the good practices and conventions defined 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - is not following good practices and conventions 
```

- [operator-framework/api][oper-api] with new checks in `OperatorHubValidator`

> - SDK tool using [operator-framework/api][oper-api] and return errors or warnings regarding the new checks via `operator-sdk bundle validate ./bundle --select-optional name=operatorhub`

Reviewer 2: We should add more to this enhancement delineating what will be warned and what will be errored on. The distinction will be critical if this is called in the CI pipeline, as WARN level will likely just be something you look at in the gathered log and event output of a job, whereas ERROR level output will likely mean a failed job. Either level could be appropriate, it's just that we should give some mention here as to what types of things would likely be what level.

Author: I tried to address your concern here. Please, let me know wdyt

> - Pipeline performing the new checks since it uses `operator-sdk bundle validate ./bundle --select-optional name=operatorhub` 

Reviewer 2: These last two goals just seems like how and where to implement, not goals.

Author: The goal to implement the validator is to check the SDK and Pipeline using it. 
We do not implement the validator on SDK.

Author: improved let me know wdyt?

### Non-Goals

- Add checks which are specific for some kind of vendor

## Proposal

### User Stories 

> - As an operator developer, I'd like to use the SDK tool to validate my operator bundle, which will be published on OperatorHub so that, I could quickly get its errors and warnings locally to be able to provide the required fixes and improvements before try to publish it 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- As an operator developer, I'd like to use the SDK tool to validate my operator bundle before publishing on OperatorHub. Validating will allow me to quickly get its errors and warnings locally so I can provide the required fixes and improvements before trying to publish it 
```

> - As an operator framework maintainer, I'd like to see the `OperatorHubValidator` in [operator-framework/api][oper-api] performing the proposed new checks so that, I can easily keep it maintained and use it in any project and tool which please me.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- As an operator framework maintainer, I'd like to see the `OperatorHubValidator` in [operator-framework/api][oper-api] performing the proposed new checks so that, I can easily keep it maintained and use it in any project and tool which pleases me.
```

> - As an operator framework maintainer, I'd like to see CI checking the operator bundle criteria when a user pushes a Pull Request to add the operator bundle on the OpertorHub so that, we can easily ensure a better quality of the projects before they are published. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As an operator framework maintainer, I'd like to see CI checking the operator bundle criteria when a user pushes a Pull Request to add the operator bundle on the OperatorHub so that, we can easily ensure a better quality of the projects before they are published. 
```

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

**K8S cluster supportability**

| Check | Type | Description | 
| ------ | ----- | ----- |
| To check if the `minKubeVersion` is informed | warning | Check if `spec.minKubeVersion` in CSV has a value if not inform the user that it would be recommended 
| To check if the value defined in `minKubeVersion` is valid| error | Check if `spec.minKubeVersion` has an valid syntax and if it is a valid option. Otherwise, return an error with the information accordingly

**CRD and Webhook APIS deprecated and unsupported versions**

| Check | Type | Description | 
| ------ | ----- | ----- |

> | To check if the operator bundle is using the CRD  API version which is deprecated | warning | Check if the CRD manifests in the bundle are using `apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1`. (See [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/v1.4.2/testdata/go/v2/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/cache.example.com_memcacheds.yaml#L1) this manifest in the SDK testdata go sample using `go/v2`). Note that in this cases users should be informed that the `apiextensions/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16` and will be removed in `1.22`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| To check if the operator bundle is using the CRD  API version which is deprecated | warning | Check if the CRD manifests in the bundle are using `apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1`. (See [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/v1.4.2/testdata/go/v2/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/cache.example.com_memcacheds.yaml#L1) this manifest in the SDK testdata go sample using `go/v2`). Note that in these cases, users should be informed that the `apiextensions/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16` and will be removed in `1.22`.
```

> | To check if the operator bundle is using the Webhook API version which is deprecated | warning | Check if the CSV has the spec `webhookdefinitions.admissionReviewVersions.v1beta1`. (See [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/v1.4.2/testdata/go/v2/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/memcached-operator.clusterserviceversion.yaml#L203-L205). Note that in this cases users should be informed that the `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16` and will be removed in `1.22`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| To check if the operator bundle is using the Webhook API version which is deprecated | warning | Check if the CSV has the spec `webhookdefinitions.admissionReviewVersions.v1beta1`. (See [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/v1.4.2/testdata/go/v2/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/memcached-operator.clusterserviceversion.yaml#L203-L205). Note that in these cases, users should be informed that the `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16` and will be removed in `1.22`. 
```

| To check if the operator bundle is using the Webhook API version which is no longer supported | error | If `spec.minKubeVersion` is  informed  and it is >= `1.22` then, check if the CSV has the spec `webhookdefinitions.admissionReviewVersions.v1beta1`. (See [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/v1.4.2/testdata/go/v2/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/memcached-operator.clusterserviceversion.yaml#L203-L205). Note that in this cases users should be informed that the `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16` and it is removed in `1.22`. 

**Recommendations and conventions**

| Check | Type | Description | 
| ------ | ----- | ----- |
| To check if the operator bundle versioning convention is followed | warning | Check if the operator bundle name (`metadata.name`) in CSV matches with `operatorname-v0.0.0`. We can use regex and semver go lib to do this check. 

> | To check if the operator bundle channel names are following up the definition. See [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager/blob/master/doc/design/channel-naming.md#recommended-channel-naming) | warning | Check if the channels name are not in `preview`,`stable`,`fast` or in `preview-*`,`stable-*`,`fast-*`. We can use regex and raise the warning with the link for the doc. Also the warning should return all values that does not matches with criteria. See that the channel names can be found in the index image (e.g [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/v1.4.2/testdata/go/v2/memcached-operator/bundle/metadata/annotations.yaml#L2)) or in the package (e.g [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/community-operators/blob/master/upstream-community-operators/mysql/mysql.package.yaml#L1))

Reviewer: i'm not sure if we want to get to the point of validating channel names (beyond syntactic validity).  While we have our best practices, i'm leery of trying to enforce them in a validator.

Author: My idea here is check who is following the convention and then, raise a WARNING only if it is not followed. So, users will still able to use any name as please them. However, we will have an opportunity to notify them about the convention and do the recommendations automatically.

Author: It is one of the requirements. So, I am closing this as solved. Let me know if you still with any objection.

Reviewer: It is a requirement of what?

### Risks and Mitigations

> It same risks and or mitigations which are faced to address any change. However, see that the usage of the validator can be easily disabled from any place in case it is required until a bug fix be get patched. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Same risks and/or mitigations which are faced to address any change. However, see that the usage of the validator can be easily disabled from any place in case it is required until a bug fix can be patched. 
```

> It same risks and or mitigations which are faced to address any change. However, see that the usage of the validator can be easily disabled from any place in case it is required until a bug fix be get patched. 

Reviewer 2: It might be nice to propose some granularity on this, for usage in CI particularly. So like a flag `-disableErrorsOn<Feature>`

Author: To disable is required to not call/use the command in sdk. e.g Pipeline added a new call then if face an issue to not get blocker only comment the call as happened in the past. I will try to clarify thank you.

Author: @bentito it would be a possibility. However, we are very close to the 1.22 release and I think the most important is we try to move with the new checks. I am not sure if would be valid just get the warning for the current scenarios. However, we could do that in the future.

- As an operator framework maintainer, I'd like to see the `OperatorHubValidator` in [operator-framework/api][oper-api] performing the proposed new checks so that, I can easily keep it maintained and use it in any project and tool which pleases me.
- As an operator framework maintainer, I'd like to see CI checking the operator bundle criteria when a user pushes a Pull Request to add the operator bundle on the OperatorHub so that, we can easily ensure a better quality of the projects before they are published.  

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

**K8S cluster supportability**

| Check | Type | Description | 
| ------ | ----- | ----- |
| To check if the `minKubeVersion` is informed | warning | Check if `spec.minKubeVersion` in CSV has a value if not inform the user that it would be recommended 
| To check if the value defined in `minKubeVersion` is valid| error | Check if `spec.minKubeVersion` has an valid syntax and if it is a valid option. Otherwise, return an error with the information accordingly

**CRD and Webhook APIS deprecated and unsupported versions**

| Check | Type | Description | 
| ------ | ----- | ----- |

> | To check if the operator bundle is using the CRD  API version which is deprecated | warning | Check if the CRD manifests in the bundle are using `apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1`. (See [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/v1.4.2/testdata/go/v2/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/cache.example.com_memcacheds.yaml#L1) this manifest in the SDK testdata go sample using `go/v2`). Note that in these cases, users should be informed that the `apiextensions/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16` and will be removed in `1.22`.

Reviewer: shouldn't this also be an outright error if the operator specifies a minversion of 1.22+?

Author: I split here. However, I think that I could found a better way to describe it.

**CRD and Webook APIS deprecated and unsupported versions**

Note that in these cases, users should be informed that the `apiextensions/v1beta1` and that the `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16` and will/was removed in `1.22`.

- To check if the operator bundle is using a CRD API version which is deprecated or not supported we will need to see if the CRD manifests in the bundle are using `apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1`. (See [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/v1.4.2/testdata/go/v2/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/cache.example.com_memcacheds.yaml#L1)). Note that we need to check all CRD(s) added on the bundle.

- To check if the operator bundle is using the Webhook API version which is deprecated we will need to see if the CSV has the spec `webhookdefinitions.admissionReviewVersions.v1beta1`. (See [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/v1.4.2/testdata/go/v2/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/memcached-operator.clusterserviceversion.yaml#L203-L205)

The error raised will be accordingly with the Kubernetes version that we have, see:

| Conditional | Type |
| ------ | ----- |

> | operator bundle supports k8s => `1.22` | error |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| operator bundle supports k8s => `1.22`  and uses apiextensions/v1beta1 | error |
| operator bundle supports k8s => `1.22`  and uses admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1 | error |
```

> | operator bundle supports k8s `=> 1.16 <= 1.22` | warning |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| operator bundle supports k8s `=> 1.16 <= 1.22`  and uses apiextensions/v1beta1 | warning |
| operator bundle supports k8s `=> 1.16 <= 1.22`  and uses admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1 | warning |
```

**IMPORTANT** 

> > Until Kubernetes `1.22` not be released and OpenShift has not a release using that we should return `warning` and NOT `error` in any scenario where the `--optional-values="k8s=1.22"` flag/value is not provided. 

Reviewer: i'm struggling to understand what this is trying to say.

Then, it means that:
- `--optional-values="kubeVersion=value"` flag with a value `=> 1.16 <= 1.22` we will raise warning.
- `--optional-values="kubeVersion=value"` flag with a value `=> 1.22` we will raise error.

> - Any `minKubeVersion` or `empty` means warning 

Reviewer: why wouldn't it be an error if the minKubeVersion is 1.22+?  Sure, it's silly to ship an operator with minkubeversion greater than the current latest kubeversion, but maybe they are planning ahead, or experimenting.

Author: Because the apis are no longer supported after 1.22.
1.22 was not released yet. So, we cannot raise an error here. 

Before the release of 1.22:
- Any `minKubeVersion` or `empty` means to raise a warning 
After the release of 1.22
Any `minKubeVersion` means to raise an error.  

I will clarify.

- To check if the operator bundle is using the Webhook API version which is deprecated we will need to see if the CSV has the spec `webhookdefinitions.admissionReviewVersions.v1beta1`. (See [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/v1.4.2/testdata/go/v2/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/memcached-operator.clusterserviceversion.yaml#L203-L205)

The error raised will be accordingly with the Kubernetes version that we have, see:

| Conditional |Type |
| ------ | ----- |
| operator bundle supports k8s => `1.22` and uses `apiextensions/v1beta1` ÒR `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` | error |
| operator bundle supports k8s `=> 1.16 <= 1.22` and uses `apiextensions/v1beta1` ÒR `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` | warning |

**IMPORTANT** 

> > Kubernetes version `1.22` was not released until now which means that the deprecated APIs still supported for all clusters. Also, at the same way none OpenShift version which is using Kubernetes API `1.22` was released. Then, we cannot raise errors until it happens for the scenarios where we are checking the version from `minKubeVersion` or assuming all possible versions when it is not provided.

Reviewer: we can still raise the errors.  we know what will happen when 1.22 is released.  we don't need to wait for it to be released to change the validation logic.  If you are validating against 1.22 (either because that's what your minkubeversion says, or because that's what someone passed on the command line) then it's an error to use v1beta1 apis.

Author: If  `minKubeVersion` >= 1.22 yes we can it is true. My concern here is: if `minKubeVersion` == nil scenario good catcher.

> However, for the checks where the `--optional-values="k8s=1.22"` was used we know that the goal is to verify if the operator bundle will work òn `1.22` then, we can already raise the `error` result. 

Then, it means that:
- `--optional-values="kubeVersion=value"` flag with a value `=> 1.16 <= 1.22` the validator will return result as warning.
- `--optional-values="kubeVersion=value"` flag with a value `=> 1.22` the validator will return result as error.
**Currently (Before `1.22` release)**

> - For any value provided in `minKubeVersion` or it `empty/nil` means return the warning result.

Reviewer: if someone provides "1.22" in minKubeVersion, and tries to use the v1beta1 apis, that is an error.  Regardless of whether 1.22 has been released or not.  we know their operator isn't going to work on 1.22.

- As an operator developer or operator framework maintainer, I'd like to use the validator to check if my operator bundle will work on versions of Kubernetes that I am intend to publish it to.

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

#### New Criteria valid which will not checked against to a specific Kubernetes version

**minKubeVersion**

The motivation for the following check is to ensure that operators authors understand that when the `minKubeVersion` is not defined it means allow to distribute the operator bundle in any Kubernetes version available and then, tha the operator projects has no limitations regarding the supported kubernetes versions which probably is not the common scenario.

**NOTE** By looking at the OpenShift catalogue `4.7` we can found `125` head operator bundles, and `41` of them provided the `minKubeVersion` version. It means that `84` operator bundles have been distributed as supporting all Kubernetes Versions, which has a significant potential of not being accurate.

> 

Author: @bparees ^ only to share and for you be knowledgeable of that as well.

| operator bundle supports k8s `=> 1.16 <= 1.22` and uses `apiextensions/v1beta1` ÒR `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` | warning |

**Why we need to check if the api v1 is not used instead of only check if it has any CRD or Webhook with the deprecated `v1beta1`?**
		
The operator author might provide a solution that works for both scenarios which means that will work when installed in the previous version of `Kubernetes < 1.16` and also in the upper versions `=> 1.22`. However, for the operator works well in any Kubernetes version `>=1.22`, we know that it is mandatory it has the latest APIs versions `v1`. See [here](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/blob/v3.0.0-beta.0/test/e2e/v3/plugin_cluster_test.go#L99-L101), for example, that in the e2e test for Kubebuilder, we check what is the cluster version to apply and test the API versions accordingly. And then, note that we can find both APIs in the webhooks fields of the CSV as well such as:

```
  webhookdefinitions:
  - admissionReviewVersions:
    - v1beta1
    - v1   
``` 

> 

Author: Hi @bparees, 

After re-checking all possibilities I indeed found another scenario that was not covered. Then, I changed the conditional check accordingly. See ^

**IMPORTANT** 

> Kubernetes version `1.22` was not released until now which means that the deprecated APIs still supported for all clusters. Also, at the same way none OpenShift version which is using Kubernetes API `1.22` was released. Then, we cannot raise errors until it happens for the scenarios where we are `minKubeVersion` is empty and we are assuming all possible versions.
> However, for the checks where the `--optional-values="k8s=1.22"` was used we know that the goal is to verify if the operator bundle will work òn `1.22` then, we can already raise the `error` result. 

Then, it means that:
- `--optional-values="kubeVersion=value"` flag with a value `=> 1.16 <= 1.22` the validator will return result as warning.
- `--optional-values="kubeVersion=value"` flag with a value `=> 1.22` the validator will return result as error.
- `minKubeVersion >= 1.22` return the error result.

**Currently (Before `1.22` release)**
- `minKubeVersion` empty/nil return the warning result.

**After `1.22` k8s release**
- `minKubeVersion >= 1.22 or empty/nil`  return the error result.

> 

Author: I need to add here that the validators will need to be able to receive a string map and check if it contains any valid key for the specific check.

### Risks and Mitigations

The Kubernetes `1.22` release will impact the Pipeline. After the implementation of the check: 

**After `1.22` k8s release**
- `minKubeVersion >= 1.22 or empty/nil`  return the error result.

All bundles which are using the no longer supported Kubernetes API will start to fail in the above check which indeed is the purpose of this proposal. However, the risk still solved since the Pipeline can indeed inform a Kubernetes version lower such as `--optional-values="k8s=1.21"` if required until all projects are properly update.

> 

Author: Hi @bparees, 

Also, see that the Pipeline scenario/risk and mitigations are also covered properly now.

---
title: operatorhub-bundle-validation
authors:
  - "@camilamacedo86"
reviewers:
  - TBD
approvers:
  - TBD
creation-date: 2021-02-19
last-updated: 2021-03-07
status: implementable
---

> # Add checks new Validator

Author: The validator already exists. So, I improved your suggestion as well. Tks.

This proposal describes new checks to be implemented into the [OperatorHubValidator][operatorhubvalidator]. This validator is defined in [operator-framework/api][oper-api].

## Open Questions

**1. Should we create a new Validator for this new checks ?** 

The new checks are valid in the context of what would be required and/or recommended to publish an operator bundle on OperatorHub.io. Also, we do not have many of them to starts to have big concerns which shows fail in the [PO](https://wiki.c2.com/?PrematureOptimization) in this stage.

However, would be expected following good practices where the types of checks are properly encapsulate and can easily keep maintained and extracted if required.

**2. Are ONlY these checks enough to ensure that the operator bundles work well as expected?** 

> Definitely not. The operator bundle manifests has a lot of information which could be used by *"linters"* checks as this one with the purpose of avoid issues scenarios and give a fast response for the operator authors and jobs.

Author: See if it is better now?

This proposal only address some priority needs which are; 
- check and notify the main recommendations for us at the moment; [channel naming convention][channel-names-doc] and operator name versioning.
- avoid the issues with the most critical scenarios related to K8S API deprecations which will cause high impact after 1.22 release out.

**3. What are the changes proposed here which affects SDK?** 

> This proposal is to define new checks for a Validator which is used and provided by SDK already. Then, for users are able to use its new checks SDK requires only bump the version of [operator-framework/api][oper-api] and add a new option flag `--optional-values` to get and pass options values to the Validator. 

Author: @jmrodri in order to make clear it,  I added the info via the open question ^.

Author: the idea here is only to provide a flag which is a string map "key=value,key=value" for the CLI pass options values for the API. The SDK does not require to validate that. If the value informed be invalid then the API will return the error and/or ignore it.  

WHY does it need to be a map? 

Because if we want to add other values then we can just use it. Also, this option flag can be used with any other validator. For example, if the OCP one gets done as we have the OperatorHubValidator today than, we will pass ocp=4.8 for example.

Author: Added on the proposal. So, I am closing this one as sorted. However, please feel free to ping me if think that requires a better description.

## Release Signoff Checklist

- [x] Enhancement is `implementable`
- [x] Design details are appropriately documented from clear requirements
- [x] Test plan is defined
- [ ] Graduation criteria for dev preview, tech preview, GA

## Summary

`OperatorHubValidator` checks if the operator is respecting the required criteria to be published in the [OperatorHub.io](https://operatorhub.io/). This proposal describes criteria to be added to it. See [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/api/blob/v0.6.0/pkg/validation/internal/operatorhub.go) its checks code implementation.

Many tools and projects use `OperatorHubValidator` already. Note that the new checks described by this proposal will be available via SDK:

```sh
$ operator-sdk bundle validate --help
...
To validate a bundle against operatorhub.io requirements specifically, in addition to the standard bundle validation:
   
$ operator-sdk bundle validate ./bundle --select-optional name=operatorhub
``` 

The new validator also needs to allow the checks occurs to verify the operator bundle configuration for a specific Kubernetes version where it is intend to be published:

> ```sh
> $ operator-sdk bundle validate --help
> ...
> To validate a bundle against operatorhub.io requirements specifically, in addition to the standard bundle validation for an Kubernetes version where it is intended to be distribute:
>    
> $ operator-sdk bundle validate ./bundle \
>     --select-optional name=operatorhub \
>     --optional-values="k8s=1.22"
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```sh
$ operator-sdk bundle validate ./bundle \
    --select-optional name=operatorhub \
    --optional-values="k8s=1.22"
```
```

Author: Is not better we leave the help description to clarifies why/how it will work as well?

| operator bundle supports k8s `=> 1.16 <= 1.22` and uses `apiextensions/v1beta1` ÒR `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` | warning |

**Why we need to check if the api v1 is not used instead of only check if it has any CRD or Webhook with the deprecated `v1beta1`?**
		
The operator author might provide a solution that works in the previous version of `Kubernetes < 1.16` and in the upper versions `=> 1.22`. However, for the operator works well in any Kubernetes version `>=1.22`, we know that it is mandatory to project the latest APIs. See [here](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/blob/v3.0.0-beta.0/test/e2e/v3/plugin_cluster_test.go#L99-L101), for example, that in the e2e test for Kubebuilder, we check what is the cluster version to apply and test the api versions accordingly. And then, note that we can find both APIs in the webhooks fields of the CSV as well such as:

```
  webhookdefinitions:
  - admissionReviewVersions:
    - v1beta1
    - v1   
``` 

> 

Author: Hi @bparees, 

After re-checking all possibilities I indeed found another scenario that was not covered. Then, I changed the conditional check accordingly. See
